# Why Make this Web App?

### My Motive
**The purpose of this web app is to help users save money.** But, rather than give them advice in earning money (which I am not wholly qualified to give), I decided on spending. After all, if you are able to spend less money then you'll save more automatically! This idea came from my desire to make a web app that was actually useful. If you've played/seen/tested my other web app, Code Clicker, you would know it is pointless. There is no tangible ultimate prize, and users don't truly gain anything from using it (aside from a good time!). It's natural for video games to be this way, but I felt a need to make something more *useful*. Beyond this, I wanted to make something I could *actually see myself using*. I'm not a big spender, but that also doesn't mean there aren't any places where I unnecessarily waste money. If I were to visit a website to save me money, I'd want **actionable steps** I could apply in my real life to save money; concrete instructions to follow. I didn't like the idea of "Buy at cheaper stores to save money;" I preferred "Purchase frozen fruits, which are cheaper but just as fresh." The difference between the first and second is actionability - the second makes it so easy to apply what was learned. So, I created a web app that provides these actionable steps, hoping that others feel as I do about tips. Besides, who wouldn't want to save an extra few dollars a month? It's free money! Hence, the idea for this web app was born. While the idea has remained the same throughout, the actual implementation has gone through several changes...

### My Plans
Originally, my plan for this project was to allow users to enter in their info, such as how much money they earned (including deviations), how they spent their money (also including deviations) and see if they would be able to reach some savings goal in X months. After some testing, however, I realized this would be unwise. Not only would it require users to already know all their transaction stats (immediately making the web app useless; anyone who knows all that wouldn't be need saving advice), but it would also take a long time to work through (probably around 10 minutes) and nobody wants to spend that much time filling out a survey.  So, after that, I started thinking about bank statements. I imagined using an AI to take a user's bank statement and convert it into a csv or similar, but that also wouldn't work. Why would users trust me with their bank statements? They usually have social security numbers and exact location on there! Bank statements were off the table. But then, after some thinking back to my previous data analysis projects, I realized there was no need for user data at all. My aim with this project wasn't to make a fully-functional web app that could save users money; it was to gain expeirence analyzing data and make a useful product in the process. So why worry about data collection when services like Plaid already exist? If this web app were to truly be deployed, it would link up with a service such as Plaid to ensure the safety of all user details. To compromise the fact that the app wouldn't technically be of use to anyone in its Demo state, I created archetypes of spenders. In the original dataset, there are 10 customers, each of which has different common expenses. The idea is that, by giving each customer an 'archetype,' users could align themselves with them in the Demo and proceed through the survey as that person, perhaps learning a thing or two that could apply to their own spending. That being said, the fictitious data is not perfect (it's far from it), and it wouldn't be able to capture all the archetypes of spenders. But still, this is only a Demo. If this idea were taken farther, it would link up with Plaid and the tips would be perfectly matched to user spending. 

### My (App's) Future
